all right welcome to another episode
everyone today this is a video request
for Zachary he recently turned 17 years
old his parents gave him a 98 Nissan
Maxima shot me an email and asked how do
I change oil in the vehicle so this
video really is for him or anyone else
that needs a guide on how to change oil
for their vehicle pretty easy process
though number one what I do recommend is
go to your local auto parts supplier
very often they'll have sales where you
can grab a drain pan five quarts of oil
the oil filter for your vehicle under 30
dollars and you have the drain pan for
many many years I do recommend the type
that has this spout because when you
dispense the old oil into the drape hem
you want to add this into a container so
you can bring it to your local auto
parts apply it and recycle the oil it's
very often what I'll do is when I
replace the oil I'll use the same
container dispense the old oil but this
spout just makes it a lot easier you
don't have to worry about spilling the
oil everywhere and they just take the
old oil to your auto recycler autozone
advanced auto parts the order psycho
Oracle the / psycho oil and you'll be in
good shape so that being said let's go
ahead let's begin so of course the first
step is we need to remove the old oil
from the oil pan now Zachary has in 98
Nissan Maxima this is a 97 that we're
doing this on and it's the exact same
vehicle same motor and so forth so
Zachary this is where your drain pan is
located against the front that's your
front passenger side wheel just look to
the right of it and there's your oil pan
okay now right here this is a 14
millimeter drain plug and as you can see
I do have the car jacked up slightly and
I do have a jack stand right behind it
so if you are jacking jacking up your
car don't forget to use a jack stand
very important and what we're going to
do is just grab a wrench and we want to
loosen it which is toward us okay so
just like so and that's it
then go ahead grab your drain pan
I'm going to place it underneath
you
so now I just let it drain into the pan
we'll clean off this bolt and we'll
reapply it or retighten it back on the
oil pan we reinstall the drain plug just
make sure that this copper washer is
still on the drink plug without that
then the oil will leak out very very
slowly but indeed it will leak so make
sure that the washer is still on there
so just go ahead reinstall your drain
pin excuse me your drain bolt like so
I'm just going to move the oil pan out
of the way wherever your wrench go ahead
just tighten it down that's good enough
you don't have to be Hercules just make
it nice and tight
so once you tighten up that drain bolt
we want to do is look toward the left
and right there
this guy that happens to be your oil
filter now every brand has their own
color that happens to be a Bosch and
Bosch goes black but um if you're lucky
you'll be able to remove this by hand if
you can't they do make tools
specifically for oil filter removal and
as you can see this is a universal type
it just fits over a variety of different
sizes and as a handle so you drag the
the filter it will tighten it and you
loosen it up some even are made
specifically for the filter like this
guy this happens to be a motorcycle
filter for a Honda as you can see this
goes right over it you put a ratchet on
the end and it comes off but you should
be able to remove it by hand hopefully
now sometimes when you bring your car to
one of these oil or play shops I deal
within 10 minutes sometimes they just
put on these filters way too tight but
what you want to do is I already loosen
it up by hand because it's hard to do on
camera but just get a very good grip on
it don't forget oil pan because some oil
will come out and just remove it from
the vehicle alright
right on top right here you have a
rubber gasket make sure this gasket
comes off you know in 20 years I've only
seen one time when this gasket did not
come off with the filter so I would say
99% of the time it does come off but
make sure it does come off because when
you reinstall the new filter if this old
rubber gasket is still on the mount then
it's going to leak so just don't forget
to check that so again this is your old
filter and this may be a little bit of a
better view as you can see you have this
rubber gasket make sure it comes off
with the old filter so we grab our new
filter what you're going to do is just
stick your finger and the new oil and
just lightly coat the gasket this will
make it easier to remove down the road
when you're ready to do so
and once you do that just go ahead and
look at the directions every filter is a
little bit different as you can see here
it just states clean the mounting point
which I'll do off-camera you don't need
to see that in other words this is the
mounting point on the motor so just
clean off the surface add a little bit
of oil on this rubber gasket which we
did and turn it one turn so in other
words once you reinstall this on the on
the motor
once this filter makes contact and
you'll feel it you'll be able to spin it
freely and it will just stop once you
make contact
turn it one full turn and that's it you
have to over tighten it it won't leak
just one full turn and you're good if
you go too tight it's going to be really
hard to take off down the road so just
one full turn in this case is perfectly
okay and again before you reinstall the
filter just make sure that's where the
filter goes make sure you clean up that
mounting point and we'll go ahead and
reinstall the filter here
for you check down the vehicle don't
forget to move the oil pan you don't
want to smash the car on top of it make
a mess horse we need to add oil here's
your little cap just remove it this is
the valve cover and that's where the cap
is located grab yourself a funnel and
for this vehicle it's four and a quarter
quarts or four liters if anyone is
watching this in Europe and just go
ahead and add in your oil I always use
5w30 that's what the manual states if
you're never sure how much oil to use or
what kind of oil to use just look at the
owner's manual that's always in the
owner's manual if anyone out there with
the Nissan if the nut sure will kind of
fluid to use or how much to use just
shoot me an email and I'll look it up
don't you wrap up finishing with the oil
again in this case it's four and a
quarter US courts or four litres just
make sure everything is nice and clean
and let's just check the level to make
sure that we're in good shape and if we
take a look there's your point that you
want
flip it over sometimes it can be a
little hard to see and that's where we
are so we're in good shape and of course
the last step is will recycle the old
oil
I'll dispense it into this container
bring it to my oak my local auto parts
supplier and that's it so Zack I hope
this helps you out good luck with the
car and we'll see you next time
ha